Let's do a fun little exercise.
And yes I know.
I call all exercise fun but it's fun right.
We get to code.
All right let's say we have a function here and this function is going to be called Loop another original
name and inside of this loop will have a for loop that has variable I equal to zero.
Let's say I is or should be less than five.
And as long as it's less than five well we're going to keep incrementing and we're going to loop and
just console dot log.
Hi and after this for loop again within this function I'm going to also do console dog log.
Hi.
Now let's add a final text here and see what happens when I run this.
What do you think's going to happen if I run while nothing.
Because trick question.
I haven't really invoked the function.
So let's do that.
I'm going to loop
all right.
Does that make sense.
We declared a variable made at 0.
We loop through everything and once we're done with all of this we finished everything AI becomes five
we do is five less than five.
No.
Then I'm going to ignore this skip over this block and go to console log in because I is now five.
Our final value is five but what if I change this to a let
what would happen now with block scope.
Think about it pause the video if you need to.
Otherwise let's see what happens.
Point to hit run Oh I get a reference here AI is not defined and why is that while.
Because we're trying to use AI outside of its environment it's block scoped right so the environment
that it's in well it's inside of these curly brackets so we can't really access it outside of those
brackets so this isn't going to work.
Now this may have unintended consequences.
Maybe you do want to print this properly so there are cases where the variable keyword is still useful
but it's nice to know that we now have a way to have block scoping whenever we need it so to review
block scoping means declaring a variable not just inside a function but around any curly brackets like
if statements or loops.
Now the variable itself let I is actually still in memory but the engine just won't allow you to access
it before like it was when we used var this way we get to keep our mental framework of execution context
and variable environment but also have this little let keyword and cons keyword that give us some of
the powers of block scoping.
All right.
I think that's enough for now.
Take a break and I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.